id lets you see the current user info (username, group, and groups)

443 for HTTPS, 80 for HTTP

VPS = virtual private server


Nmap/Netstat tutorial: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-nmap-to-scan-for-open-ports

Ports are a transport layer thing in the OSI model


    Port: An addressable network location implemented inside of the operating system that helps distinguish traffic destined for different applications or services.

    Internet Sockets: A file descriptor that specifies an IP address and an associated port number, as well as the transfer protocol that will be used to handle the data.

    Binding: The process that takes place when an application or service uses an internet socket to handle the data it is inputting and outputting.

    Listening: A service is said to be “listening” on a port when it is binding to a port/protocol/IP address combination in order to wait for requests from clients of the service.

Ports go from 1 to 65535

    20: FTP data
    21: FTP control port
    22: SSH
    23: Telnet (Insecure, not recommended for most uses)
    25: SMTP
    43: WHOIS protocol
    53: DNS services
    67: DHCP server port
    68: DHCP client port
    80: HTTP - Unencrypted Web traffic
    110: POP3 mail port
    113: Ident authentication services on IRC networks
    143: IMAP mail port
    161: SNMP
    194: IRC
    389: LDAP port
    443: HTTPS - Secure web traffic
    587: SMTP - message submission port
    631: CUPS printing daemon port
    666: DOOM - This legacy game actually has its own special port

From Wikipedia:
The use of the term socket in software is analogous to the function of an electrical female connector,
a device in hardware for communication between nodes interconnected with an electrical cable. Similarly, the term port is used for external physical endpoints at a node or device.

The application programming interface (API) for the network protocol stack creates a handle for each
socket created by an application, commonly referred to as a socket descriptor. In Unix-like operating systems, this descriptor is a type of file descriptor.
It is stored by the application process for use with every read and write operation on the communication channel. 

At the time of creation with the API, a network socket is bound to the combination of a type of network protocol to be used for transmissions,
a network address of the host, and a port number. Ports are numbered resources that represent another type of software structure of the node.
They are used as service types, and, once created by a process, serve as an externally (from the network) addressable location component, so that other hosts may establish connections. 

------------

$ sudo netstat -plunt

there's a test server for nmap at scanme.nmap.org

Reverse DNS = looking up DNS name for given IP

nmap = port scanner and security utility

$ nmap -sT <IP address> # scans for TCP connections


FROM TUTORIAL
-------------
A TCP “SYN” scan exploits the way that TCP establishes a connection.

To start a TCP connection, the requesting end sends a “synchronize request” packet to the server. The server then sends a “synchronize acknowledgment” packet back. The original sender then sends back an “acknowledgment” packet back to the server, and a connection is established.

A “SYN” scan, however, drops the connection when the first packet is returned from the server. This is called a “half-open” scan and used to be promoted as a way to surreptitiously scan for ports, since the application associated with that port would not receive the traffic, because the connection is never completed.

This is no longer considered stealthy with the adoption of more advanced firewalls and the flagging of incomplete SYN request in many configurations
